(Transcribed by TurboScribe.ai. Go Unlimited to remove this message.) Welcome to Walking in His Footsteps, where we
dive into how Jesus's life and teachings can
change us in real, everyday ways.
I'm Emma Thompson, and today we're hearing stories
of people whose lives were turned around by
Jesus, each in a unique way.
Joining me is Dr. Michael Carter, biblical scholar
from St. Mary's University.
Dr. Carter, I'm excited for these stories.
What's in store?
Emma, it's great to be back.
Yeah, today we're looking at three lives, really.
Three people, their journeys took some, well, pretty
dramatic turns.
They all bumped up against Jesus's teachings, you
know, not in a theoretical way, but like
right in the middle of their biggest messes.
So we'll see how things change for them.
Each story kind of shows a different side
of his love, his power.
I love that.
Sets the stage really well for something personal.
Okay, let's dive in.
Who's the first person, and what was their
journey like?
Okay, first up is Daniel.
Young guy.
He got tangled up in opioid addiction.
Really tough battle.
Wow.
And it wasn't like a choice he just
made one day.
It actually started after a sports injury, snowballed
from there.
Right, that happens, sadly.
Yeah, and he just felt completely stuck, you
know?
That awful feeling of shame, helplessness, like there
was absolutely no way out of the cycle.
That sounds incredibly dark.
Yeah.
Suffocating, feeling caught like that.
Exactly.
Utterly trapped.
He felt totally alone in it.
Hopeless, really.
So where did things start to change for
him?
Well, he hit rock-bottom.
Found himself in a rehab centre, and it
was there, you know, in that place, a
chaplain shared a Bible verse with him, John
8.36. Okay.
It's where Jesus says, if the Son sets
you free, you will be free indeed.
Wow.
Free indeed, for someone feeling trapped.
Exactly.
Imagine hearing that.
It wasn't just a nice phrase.
It was like a radical promise, a lifeline.
A promise of freedom that goes deeper than
just the physical.
Yeah.
Into the mind, the spirit.
Totally.
It hit him hard.
And Daniel, he just, he clung to that
promise, like with everything he had.
He started praying every day, not just for
strength to get through withdrawal, but for like
the mental power to break free from the
addictions hole.
That makes sense.
Yeah.
It's mental too.
Big time.
And he didn't stop there.
He found a faith-based recovery group, got
around other people who understood.
Ah, community.
That's so important.
Crucial.
So you have this internal thing, right?
Clinging to the promise, and then the external
support, people walking alongside him.
Yeah, that combination, internal belief and external support.
That feels key for real change.
It really is foundational.
And as he kept leaning in, you know,
into the verse, into the community, that freedom
started to become real for him.
You could see it happening.
You could.
It gave him hope, courage, that inner strength
he needed.
And the result, I mean, it's amazing.
Daniel's now two years sober.
Two years.
That's fantastic.
It really is.
And here's the incredible part.
He's now mentoring others, people still fighting addiction,
sharing his story, offering that same hope.
Wow.
That's truly powerful.
From the depths of addiction to actively mentoring
others.
That's a profound full circle moment.
Just incredible.
Really shows that transformation we're talking about.
Okay, who's next for us?
Next, let's talk about Ayesha.
Her story shines a light on something else
really heavy.
Loneliness, crippling loneliness.
Oh, I know that one.
So many people feel that.
Yeah.
Ayesha was a single mom, went through a
tough divorce, pouring everything into her two kids,
working long hours, just trying to keep it
all together.
The demands are huge.
Totally.
But even with all that effort, all that
love for her kids, she felt, well, invisible.
Just completely isolated, always running, always responsible, longing
for connection.
That really resonates.
Loneliness is so real, isn't it?
Even when you're surrounded by people or responsibilities,
especially today, it's often this quiet struggle.
It really is.
And she got to this point of just
desperation.
One Sunday, she just sort of stumbled into
a church.
Just wandered in.
Pretty much.
Maybe just needed a quiet moment.
Who knows?
But the message that day, it hit home.
The pastor was talking about Matthew 11 to
Anel 8, where Jesus says, come to me,
all you who are weary and burdened, and
I will give you rest.
Weary and burdened.
Wow.
That must have felt like he was speaking
directly to her.
Exactly.
Like words written just for her situation.
It was this incredibly gentle invitation.
A lifeline.
Just like for Daniel, but different.
Absolutely.
That promise of rest just cut through all
her exhaustion, the weight she was carrying.
So she started to pray, which was kind
of new for her.
Found some solace there.
But then she took another step.
A brave one.
She joined a small group at the church.
Okay.
So connecting with people.
Yeah.
And this wasn't just casual.
It became, well, it became like family for
her.
Real support.
Practical help.
Emotional support.
Just people showing up.
That's just beautiful.
Finding not just spiritual rest, but that real,
tangible community.
That sense of belonging everyone craves.
Exactly.
And Aisha says it herself.
That invitation to rest.
It brought her a peace.
A connection she'd never felt before.
It wasn't just about not being tired.
It was deeper.
Soul level rest.
Yeah.
Knowing she wasn't alone.
That she was seen, valued, loved.
Her story just really shows how Jesus meets
us right there in our isolation.
Offers that connection.
That hits home.
Loneliness is so real, especially today.
I love how Jesus's words were like a
lifeline for her.
All right.
One more story.
Tell us about it.
Okay.
Our last story today is Carlos.
Carlos was a businessman.
Looks successful on the outside, you know.
Had all the stuff.
Right.
The image of success.
Exactly.
But inside, he was wrestling with a tonne
of guilt.
Things he'd done in the past.
Cutting corners in business.
Cheating on deals.
Hurting people along the way.
Oh.
So the success felt empty.
Totally empty.
It came at a huge cost to his
integrity.
And that just weighed on him constantly.
Couldn't shake it.
Kept him up at night.
That classic paradox, isn't it?
External success just can't fill that internal void,
especially from guilt.
That's it.
Exactly.
Living under this cloud of regret.
Feeling unworthy despite everything he'd achieved.
Then a friend noticed something was off.
Didn't push.
Just gave him a Bible.
Simple gesture.
Yeah.
And Carlos, maybe out of curiosity, maybe just
tired of feeling awful, he started reading it.
Eventually, he got to Luke 15.
Oh, the prodigal son.
The prodigal son.
You know the story.
Son messes up badly.
Wastes everything.
Ends up ruined.
Right.
Hits rock bottom.
Yeah.
Decides to go home, expecting maybe just to
be a servant.
But the father.
Yeah.
The father sees him coming and runs to
him.
Welcomes him back with open arms.
Throws a party.
Just pure joy and forgiveness.
That story is so powerful.
The father running.
It gets me every time.
That picture of grace.
It really is.
And Carlos, reading that, he saw himself.
Plain as day.
He was that wayward son.
Recognised his own mistakes, his own wasted integrity.
Wow.
But crucially, he also felt, really felt, God's
forgiveness through that story.
Through Jesus's words in the parable.
It wasn't about earning it.
It was just given.
Like the father running to the son.
Radical acceptance.
Totally.
And it just lifted this immense weight off
him.
He could finally breathe.
So how did that change things for him?
Like day to day.
What did that forgiveness look like in action?
It wasn't just a feeling.
It really changed how he lived.
He started the difficult work of making amends.
Going back to people he'd wronged.
That takes courage.
A lot of courage.
And he committed to living differently.
With integrity.
Rebuilding trust.
And he found this whole new purpose.
Not in making more money.
But in giving back.
Sort of volunteering his time and skills.
Amazing.
Yeah.
His story just perfectly shows that grace Jesus
offers.
That it reaches even those who feel totally
unworthy.
Offers a way back to peace.
To purpose.
These stories are so profoundly different.
Daniel's addiction.
Aisha's loneliness.
Carlos' guilt.
But like you said, they all point back
to Jesus meeting people right in their specific
mess.
Right where they are.
So what ties these together?
What's the big takeaway from these very different
lives?
Yeah.
You nailed it.
The common thread absolutely is Jesus's transformative love.
It wasn't generic.
It was personal.
Each unique struggle met by a direct encounter
with his love, his teachings.
Paul actually talks about this in Romans 12
.2. He says, be transformed by the renewing
of your mind.
Renewing of your mind.
I like that.
It's active.
It implies change starts inside.
Exactly.
It's not just surface level.
It's a deep inner shift.
Changing how we think.
How we see ourselves.
The world.
Right.
And when you look back at Daniel, Aisha,
Carlos, you see that happening.
For Daniel, it was a renewed mind about
who...
He was not an addict, but free.
Okay.
For Aisha, renewing her mind about her worth,
about belonging, breaking that isolation.
And for Carlos, a renewed mind about his
past, his purpose.
Moving from guilt to integrity and giving back.
It's Jesus's presence, his teachings, his love that
sparks that renewal.
So it's addressing the root issues, not just
the symptoms.
The fear, the shame.
Precisely.
He steps right into those deep places.
These stories, they just show Jesus isn't some
figure stuck in the past.
He's personal.
He's present.
He gets involved in our specific addiction, loneliness,
guilt, whatever it is.
And he offers exactly what's needed.
Freedom, rest, forgiveness.
He meets the need.
He offers himself, really, his love.
And it's available to anyone who looks for
him.
Ready to transform lives right now.
This deep dive really shows that, doesn't it?
It really does.
That's truly beautiful.
Thank you so much for sharing these incredible
stories.
They're such powerful reminders of hope, no matter
what someone's going through.
Listeners, if you're inspired today, or maybe if
you see yourself in Daniel, Aisha, or Carlos,
remember these changes often started with just one
step.
So maybe take a step.
Read a gospel.
Try praying.
Reach out to someone you trust.
Share this episode with someone who needs hope
and join us next time for more on
walking with Jesus.
Until then, keep walking in his footsteps.